OSDOCS-8397: Migrate "Deploy an Application - Integrating with AWS" from rosaworkshop.io (#75533)
openshift/openshift-docs: cloud_experts_tutorials/cloud-experts-deploying-application/cloud-experts-deploying-application-integrating-aws.adoc

* *Auditing*: All AWS resource access can be viewed in CloudTrail.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* link:https://aws-controllers-k8s.github.io/community/docs/user-docs/irsa/[ACK documentation page]

== Installing the ACK controller
Install the ACK controller to create and delete buckets in the S3 service by using a Kubernetes custom resource for the bucket. Installing the controller will also create the required namespace and service account.

We will use an Operator to make it easy. The Operator installation will also create an `ack-system` namespace and a service account `ack-s3-controller` for you.

. Log in to the cluster console.
. On the left menu, click *Operators*, then *OperatorHub*.
. In the filter box, enter "S3" and select *AWS Controller for Kubernetes - Amazon S3*.
+
image:cloud-experts-deploying-integrating-ack-operator.png[]
+
. If a pop-up about community operators appears, click *Continue*.
. Click *Install*.
. Select *All namespaces on the cluster* under "Installation mode".
. Select *ack-system* under "Installed Namespace".

> . Select *Update approval* under "Manual".

Reviewer: flip these.  Manual is under update approval.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Make sure *Manual Mode* is selected so changes to the service account are not overwritten by an automatic operator update.
====
+
. Click *Install*.
+
The settings should look like the below image.
+
image:cloud-experts-deployment-integrating-ack-install.png[]
+
. Click *Approve*.
. The installation begins but will not complete until you have created an IAM role and policy for the ACK controller.

== Creating an IAM role and policy for the ACK controller

. Run one of the following scripts to create the AWS IAM role for the ACK controller and assign the S3 policy:

> ** Use the link:resources/setup-s3-ack-controller.sh[setup-s3-ack-controller.sh] script, which automates the process for you.

Reviewer: Link seems to be broken

** Run the following script in your command line interface (CLI):
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/resources/setup-s3-ack-controller.sh | bash
----
+
. When the script completes, it restarts the deployment which updates the service controller pods with the IAM roles for service accounts environment variables.
. Confirm that the environment variables are set by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe pod ack-s3-controller -n ack-system | grep "^\s*AWS_"
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
AWS_ROLE_ARN:                 arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/ack-s3-controller
AWS_WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE:  /var/run/secrets/eks.amazonaws.com/serviceaccount/token
----
+

> . Confirm successful setup of the ACK controller in the {hybrid-console-second} by clicking *Operators* and then *Installed operators*.

Reviewer: that is not in the Hybrid Cloud Console.  This is just OCPs web console.

+
image:cloud-experts-deployment-installing-ack-oper-installed.png[]
+
. If you do not see a successful Operator installation and the environment variables, manually restart the deployment by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout restart deployment ack-s3-controller -n ack-system
----

== Setting up access for the application

You can create an AWS IAM role and service account so that OSToy can read and write objects to an S3 bucket.

. Create a new unique project for OSToy by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc new-project ostoy-$(uuidgen | cut -d - -f 2 | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
----
+
. Save the name of the namespace and project to an environment variable by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export OSTOY_NAMESPACE=$(oc config view --minify -o 'jsonpath={..namespace}')
----

== Creating an AWS IAM role

. Get your AWS account ID by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=$(aws sts get-caller-identity --query Account --output text)
----

> . Get the OIDC provider by running the following command, replacing `<cluster-name\>` with the name of your cluster:

Reviewer: the back-slash by "<cluster-name\>" is showing up literally in the preview.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export OIDC_PROVIDER=$(rosa describe cluster -c <cluster-name> -o yaml | awk '/oidc_endpoint_url/ {print $2}' | cut -d '/' -f 3,4)
----
+
. Create the trust policy file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF > ./ostoy-sa-trust.json
{
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Statement": [
{
"Effect": "Allow",
"Principal": {
"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::${AWS_ACCOUNT_ID}:oidc-provider/${OIDC_PROVIDER}"
},
"Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
"Condition": {
"StringEquals": {
"${OIDC_PROVIDER}:sub": "system:serviceaccount:${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}:ostoy-sa"
}
}
}
]
}
EOF

> ----

Reviewer: the formatting is off in the preview. It all seems left-aligned.

----
$ aws iam create-role --role-name "ostoy-sa-role" --assume-role-policy-document file://ostoy-sa-trust.json
----

== Attaching the S3 policy to the IAM role

. Get the S3 full access policy ARN by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export POLICY_ARN=$(aws iam list-policies --query 'Policies[?PolicyName==`AmazonS3FullAccess`].Arn' --output text)
----
+
. Attach the policy to the AWS IAM role by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name "ostoy-sa-role" --policy-arn "${POLICY_ARN}"
----

== Creating the service account for your pod

. Get the ARN for the AWS IAM role we created so that it will be included as an annotation when you create your service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export APP_IAM_ROLE_ARN=$(aws iam get-role --role-name=ostoy-sa-role --query Role.Arn --output text)
----
+
. Create the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
name: ostoy-sa
namespace: ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}
annotations:
eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: "$APP_IAM_ROLE_ARN"
EOF

> ----

Reviewer: formatting is all left-aligned.  As this is yaml the spacing is important.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not change the name of the service account from "ostoy-sa" or you will have to change the trust relationship for the AWS IAM role.
====
+
. Grant the service account the `restricted` role by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user restricted system:serviceaccount:${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}:ostoy-sa
----
+

> . Confirm that the previous step was successful by running the following command:

Reviewer: this is not specific to the previous step of granting the restricted role but rather calling the reader to confirm that the annotation was successful

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe serviceaccount ostoy-sa -n ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Name:                ostoy-sa
Namespace:           ostoy
Labels:              <none>
Annotations:         eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/ostoy-sa-role
Image pull secrets:  ostoy-sa-dockercfg-b2l94
Mountable secrets:   ostoy-sa-dockercfg-b2l94
Tokens:              ostoy-sa-token-jlc6d
Events:              <none>
----

== Creating an S3 bucket

. Create an S3 bucket using a manifest file by using one of the following options:
** Run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: s3.services.k8s.aws/v1alpha1
kind: Bucket
metadata:
name: ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}-bucket
namespace: ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}
spec:
name: ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}-bucket
EOF

> ----

Reviewer: formatting is left-aligned.  As this is yaml spacing is important.

+

> ** Download the link:yaml/s3-bucket.yaml[command], then run it.

Reviewer: we dont need this. This would jsut allow the reader to download the manifest and then run the `oc apply` command.  Not really needed.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> The OSToy application expects to find a bucket named `<namespace\>-bucket`. If you use anything other than the namespace of your OSToy project, this feature will not work. For example, if our project is "ostoy", the value for `name` must be `ostoy-bucket`.

Reviewer: the backslash is rendering literally.

====
+
. Confirm the bucket was created by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3 ls | grep ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}-bucket
----

== Redeploying the OSToy app with the new service account

. Run your pod with the service account you created.

> . Patch the `ostoy-frontend` deployment by running the following command:

Reviewer: There were some steps missing from the workshop since we created a new project the application is not present in this project.  So we need to add the steps here to deploy the microservice which is below, then deploy the front end, then we run the patch.  So the order will be:

1. Microservice - `oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-microservice-deployment.yaml`
2. Front end - `oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-frontend-deployment.yaml`
3. Patch - `oc patch deploy ostoy-frontend -n ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE} --type=merge --patch '{"spec": {"template": {"spec":{"serviceAccount":"ostoy-sa"}}}}'`

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch deploy ostoy-frontend -n ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE} --type=merge --patch '{"spec": {"template": {"spec":{"serviceAccount":"ostoy-sa"}}}}'
----
+

> . Specify the service account:

Reviewer: this is not an actual step.  It is just showing what the effect of the patch performed above is doing.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ spec:
# Uncomment to use with ACK portion of the workshop
# If you chose a different service account name please replace it.
serviceAccount: ostoy-sa
containers:
- name: ostoy-frontend
image: quay.io/ostoylab/ostoy-frontend:1.6.0
imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
[...]

> ----

Reviewer: the formatting is left-aligned.  Since it is yaml spacing is important

+
. Deploy the microservice by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/yaml/ostoy-microservice-deployment.yaml
----
+
. Wait for the pod to update.

== Confirming the environment variables

> When AWS clients detect `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity` security tokens to assume the IAM role to connect to the AWS APIs. See the link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/STS/latest/APIReference/API_AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity.html[AWS AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity] documentation for more details.

Reviewer: This sentence can be removed.

* Use the following command to describe the pods and verify that the `AWS_WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE` and `AWS_ROLE_ARN` environment variables exist for our application:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe pod ostoy-frontend -n ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE} | grep "^\s*AWS_"
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
AWS_ROLE_ARN:                 arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/ostoy-sa
AWS_WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE:  /var/run/secrets/eks.amazonaws.com/serviceaccount/token
----

== Viewing the bucket contents through OSToy

Use your app to view the contents of your S3 bucket.

. Get the route for the newly deployed application by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route ostoy-route -n ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE} -o jsonpath='{.spec.host}{"\n"}'
----
+
. Open a new browser tab and enter the route obtained in the previous step.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Be sure to use `http://` and not `https://`.
====
+
. Click *ACK S3* in the left menu in OSToy.

> . Make sure that the page that lists the contents of the bucket is empty.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say to make sure that the page is empty.  It is rather pointing out that since we have a new bucket it is empty.

+
image:cloud-expert-deploying-integrating-ack-views3contents.png[]

== Creating files in your S3 bucket

Use OStoy to create a file and upload it to the S3 bucket. While S3 can accept any kind of file, for this tutorial use text files so that the contents can easily be rendered in the browser.

. Click *ACK S3* in the left menu in OSToy.
. Scroll down to *Upload a text file to S3*.
. Enter a file name for your file.
. Enter content for your file.
. Click *Create file*.
+
image:cloud-expert-deploying-integrating-ack-creates3obj.png[]
+

> . Scroll to the top section for existing files and confirm that the file you just create is there.

Reviewer: created

. Log in to the cluster console.
. On the left menu, click *Operators*, then *OperatorHub*.
. In the filter box, enter "S3" and select *AWS Controller for Kubernetes - Amazon S3*.
+
image:cloud-experts-deploying-integrating-ack-operator.png[]
+
. If a pop-up about community operators appears, click *Continue*.
. Click *Install*.
. Select *All namespaces on the cluster* under "Installation mode".
. Select *ack-system* under "Installed Namespace".
. Select *Manual* under "Update approval".
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Make sure *Manual Mode* is selected so changes to the service account are not overwritten by an automatic operator update.
====
+
. Click *Install*.
+
The settings should look like the below image.
+
image:cloud-experts-deployment-integrating-ack-install.png[]
+
. Click *Approve*.
. The installation begins but will not complete until you have created an IAM role and policy for the ACK controller.

== Creating an IAM role and policy for the ACK controller

. Run one of the following scripts to create the AWS IAM role for the ACK controller and assign the S3 policy:

> ** Use the link:https://www.rosaworkshop.io/ostoy/resources/setup-s3-ack-controller.sh[setup-s3-ack-controller.sh] script, which automates the process for you.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if you need to add a note, but it was a little startling that this just downloaded a file for me. Probably fine though.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF | oc apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ostoy-sa
  namespace: ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}
  annotations:
    eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: "$APP_IAM_ROLE_ARN"
EOF
----
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Do not change the name of the service account from "ostoy-sa" or you will have to change the trust relationship for the AWS IAM role.
====
+
. Grant the service account the `restricted` role by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm policy add-scc-to-user restricted system:serviceaccount:${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}:ostoy-sa
----
+
. Confirm that the annotation was successful by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe serviceaccount ostoy-sa -n ${OSTOY_NAMESPACE}
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Name:                ostoy-sa
Namespace:           ostoy
Labels:              <none>
Annotations:         eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: arn:aws:iam::000000000000:role/ostoy-sa-role
Image pull secrets:  ostoy-sa-dockercfg-b2l94
Mountable secrets:   ostoy-sa-dockercfg-b2l94
Tokens:              ostoy-sa-token-jlc6d
Events:              <none>
----

== Creating an S3 bucket

> . Create an S3 bucket using a manifest file by using one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: This sub-option is your only option so:
```suggestion
. Create an S3 bucket using a manifest file by running the following command:
```

> ** Run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

+
image:cloud-experts-deploying-integrating-ack-operator.png[]
+
. If a pop-up about community operators appears, click *Continue*.
. Click *Install*.
. Select *All namespaces on the cluster* under "Installation mode".
. Select *ack-system* under "Installed Namespace".
. Select *Update approval* under "Manual".
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Make sure *Manual Mode* is selected so changes to the service account are not overwritten by an automatic operator update.
====
+
. Click *Install*.
+
The settings should look like the below image.
+
image:cloud-experts-deployment-integrating-ack-install.png[]
+
. Click *Approve*.
. The installation begins but will not complete until you have created an IAM role and policy for the ACK controller.

== Creating an IAM role and policy for the ACK controller

. Run one of the following scripts to create the AWS IAM role for the ACK controller and assign the S3 policy:
** Use the link:resources/setup-s3-ack-controller.sh[setup-s3-ack-controller.sh] script, which automates the process for you.
** Run the following script in your command line interface (CLI):
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/resources/setup-s3-ack-controller.sh | bash

Author: Hi @0kashi - Can you please help with updating this? Thanks!

> $ curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift-cs/rosaworkshop/master/rosa-workshop/ostoy/resources/setup-s3-ack-controller.sh | bash

Reviewer: done
